---
layout: post
title: Setting up continuous integration for a Docker project
category: Docker
---

Setting up continuous integration for your project that uses **Docker** and
running your first build on Semaphore is easy and intuitive. Semaphore provides
a quick configuration process for GitHub and Bitbucket repositories which makes
importing your code straightforward.

If you don't already have a Semaphore account, [sign up for a free
account](/users/sign_up). The free account provides you with unlimited CI
service for open-source projects and up to 100 private builds per month.

After you have signed in on Semaphore for the first time, a welcome screen will
prompt you to add your first project. Click "Build a new Project" button to get
started.

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-project/build-new-project.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered" alt="Build your project">

If you already have some projects on Semaphore, you can easily add a new project
by clicking on the "Create new" menu in the top navigation bar, and then select
"Project".

If this is the first project you're adding to Semaphore, the next screen will
prompt you to connect your Semaphore account with your GitHub or Bitbucker
account. For help in that process, please consult the separate guide that
explains in detail how to [add your GitHub or Bitbucket project to
Semaphore](/docs/adding-github-bitbucket-project-to-semaphore.html).

After you have connected your repository host account with your Semaphore
account, Semaphore will list all the projects it is able to access. You can
select one from the list.

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-docker-project/select-project.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered" alt="Select project">

Next, select the Git branch you would like to use first. Semaphore will from the
point your project has been created **automatically** test every new branch you
create, and remove the ones you delete from origin.  You can manually add any
additional branches which existed before you created the project on Semaphore
from your project page later.

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-docker-project/select-branch.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered" alt="Select branch">

After selecting a branch, Semaphore will perform a **quick analysis** of the
source code and recognize the presence of your `Dockerfile` or
`docker-compose.yml`. This will generate a set of working build commands
depending on your project's programming language which you will see and be able
to customize after the analysis.

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-docker-project/short-analysis.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered" alt="Short analysis">

Next, Semaphore will prompt you to choose a platform for you project based on
the project analysis. If you have `Dockerfile` or `docker-compose.yml` in your
project, Semaphore will preselect the platform with Docker support enabled.
Click on "Docker" option. You can change the platform later on the project's
settings page.

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-project/choose-platform-step.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered" alt="Analysis results">

Once you have chosen a platform, you can add your container registry host.
Semaphore supports:

 - [Docker Hub](/docs/docker/setting-up-docker-hub-for-your-project.html),
 - [Amazon EC2 Container Registry (ECR)](/docs/docker/setting-up-amazon-container-registry-for-your-project.html),
 - [Google Container Registry (GCR)](/docs/docker/setting-up-google-container-registry-for-your-project.html),
 - [Quay.io](/docs/docker/setting-up-quay-io-for-your-project.html),
 - [Custom Container Registry](/docs/docker/setting-up-custom-container-registry-for-your-project.html).

This step is optional, so if you don't use any of the above, you can click
"Skip this step".

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-project/docker-registry-hosts-list.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered" alt="Container Registry Hosts list">

If your project needs to run commands that are different from what Semaphore has
suggested, just use the commands editor to customize them for your needs.

At this point, you'll be ready to launch your first **Docker** build. Click on
"Build With These Settings" to do so. If all goes well, you should see your
first successful build on Semaphore.

<img src="/docs/assets/img/adding-new-docker-project/green-build.png" class="img-responsive img-bordered">

Happy building!
